1. Design a "smart" lock for your home that does a 3-factor authentication that checks something the user knows  AND something the user has AND something the user is.  (2 points)

-The front door asks for your birithday, to insert your house key, and to place their finger on the fingerprint scanner.

2. Describe each of the following four kinds of access control mechanisms in terms of 
(a) ease of determining authorized access during execution, 
(b) ease of adding access for a new subject, 
(c) ease of deleting access by a subject, and 
(d) ease of creating a new object to which all subjects by default have access.

• per-subject access control list (that is, one list for each subject tells	all the objects to which that subject has access)
a) Execution of what? An object? When an object is being accessed by a subject, it must simply look at the directory to see the subject's permissions. Easy.
b) Easy, simply create a new directory for the new subject.
c) Also easy, go to that subject remove any or all objects from its directory
d) Hard, must go to EVERY subject to include access of object.

• per-object access control list (that is, one list for each object tells all the subjects who have access to that object)
a) easy, when an object is being executed by a subject, check if the subject is in the objects ACL.
b) hard. go to every object and add the subject to the ACL 
c) hard, go to every object and remove the subject from the ACL
d) easy, create a new object for the new ACL.

• access control matrix
a) easy. index into the matrix at the right row/col and read the value.
b) easy. add a new row
c) easy. remove a row.
d) easy. add a column

• capability
a) easy, does the subject have the token to perform x action on the object?
b) easy, create a new token
c) easy, delete token
d) hard, create token for eash user

3. You are charged with protecting Alice's machine from receiving unwanted traffic from machines on a blacklist. (4.5 points)

(1) If access control could only be done on Alice's machine, would the implementation of access control be an ACL, or a directory? Explain briefly.  

-directory. all subjects are on a single machine, easy enough to track down. Likely more objects than subjects, so fewer lists to manage.

(2) If access control could only be done on the senders of all traffic, would the implementation of access control be an ACL, or a directory? Explain briefly.

-ACL. we would be sending objects around and each object would need to know which subject is allowed to to what with it. subjects would be dispersed accross different machines, make a directory difficult.

(3) If the access control could only be done by having the traffic carry certain information, what would be the access control implementation that you would choose? Explain briefly.

- I don't think this question makes sense. The traffic can "only contain certain information"? As opposed to all information? Uncertain information? All traffic has this constraint. All traffic would meet this criteria and have the same access control inplementation, which we know is not the case.

- If there are no constraints on what we can transmit, then I would chose the ACM as it contains all the information required for control.

4. RSA. With n=6, show how you would choose a corresponding public and private key, and verify that it works for plain text P=5.  (2 points)
n = 6
P = 5
p = 2
q = 3
e = 7 (relatively prime to p-1 * q-1 or 1*3 or 3)
d = 1 st. 7*d = 1 mod (2-1)*(3-1)

• Encryption key: (7, 6) 
• Decryption key: (1, 6)

5 goes in
• Encryption: C = 5^7 mod 6
C = 5 

5 comes out
• Decryption: P = 5^1 mod 6
p = 5

5. Describe how Diffie-Hellman key exchange protocol works, and why it is resilient against eavesdroppers. (3 points)

Diffie-Hellman is used to generate a key. Two people, S and R, want to create a shared key, and do not want anyone in the middle knowing what it is.

• S comes up with two prime numbers (g, p) and tells R what they are.
• R then picks a secret number (a). R computes A = g^a mod p and sends A to S. 
• S computes B = g^b mod p. Sends B to R 
• R does Key = B^a mod p.
• S does Key = A^b mod p.
S and R now have the same key value

6. Alice has 50 friends, and she wishes to send all of them a common message secretly. That is, each friend will receive the same message, and only these 50 friends can decrypt it. Alice knows the public key of each of them. How would you design the message for Alice to send?  (4 points)

This question is ambiguous. It can be seen as asking how to send a common plaintext (that is encrypted) to 50 people or it can be interpreted to be how to send a common cyphertext to 50 people. I chose the former.

-If you are confident that Alice knows the Public Key of each of them from some previously secure connection, the encyrpt 50 identical messages, each one with a different public key from each of the friends and send each friend their coresponding message. 

7. In our lecture on the Uses of Encryption, on the slide entitled "Authentication Path," what would the certificates for Cathy, Bob, Alice, David look like?  (3 points)

Name:	PubKey:			Cert:
Cathy	01389234789357	Y1 + h(2,2) + h(3,4)
Bob		89230378597823	Y2 + h(1,1) + h(3,4) 
Alice	72384927894027	Y3 + h(1,2) + h(4,4)
David	32748902378240	Y4 + h(1,2) + h(3,3)


